---
title: "Better Dehumidifier Control"
date: 2024-10-28T06:32:01-05:00
draft: false
Tags: ["Home Assistant", "Self Hosting", "Weather", "Projects"]
---

Because I live in the American South and because we recently had our water
plumbing explode, the humidity in our house tends to be sky high. Like 60%
or higher high. To counter this I picked up a large dehumidifier from 
Amazon which has largely worked well controlling the humidity until 
recently.

Recently though I noticed that the humidifier kept turning off and on. 
Dehumidifier was set to 35 but the household thermostat was reading 55% 
humidity. As a check, I set the dehumidifier to run continuously. It 
stayed running and the humidity in the house started dropping and is 
down to the 30’s in the room where the device is located and down to 
46 at the thermostat. My conclusion was that the humidity sensor on the 
device had failed.

I could go the hard route. Take apart the dehumidifier, try to find the 
problem and do a board level repair. Go the expensive route and replace 
a generally functioning dehumidifier. Or I could take cheap, simple, and 
admitedly jerry-rigged option. Home Assistant.

My first idea was to use Node-Red to kitbash a hygrostat together with
some basic safeties, but as I was putting the devices and sensors into 
helpers I found that Home Assistant has a new (to me anyways) helper 
called a Generic Hygostat that can connect a humidity sensor like 
[this one](<https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0D2NVJTS3>) by Third Reality to a 
smart outlet or plug and control that outlet based on a humidity level 
you set. It can be set to control either a humidifier or dehumidifier. 
Once you've created the helper you can add the helper to your dashboard 
and it gives you thermostat like control over your de/humidifier. Pretty 
slick.
