---
title: "Top 25 Albums and Songs of 2024"
date: 2025-01-05
draft: true
Tags: ["Tag 1", "Tag 2", "Tag 3", "Tag 4"]
---
### Top Albums of 2024
1. BRAT - Charil xcx
2. The Tortured Poets Department - Taylor Swift
3. OK Computer - Radiohead
4. HIT ME HARD AND SOFT - Billie Eilish
5. Rise and Fall of a Midwest Princess - Chappel Roan
6. Hybrid Theory - Linkin Park
7. Meteora - Linkin Park
8. eternal sunshine - Ariana Grande
9. Nevermind - Nirvana
10. GUTS - Olivia Rodrigo
11. In Rainbows - Radiohead
12. WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP, WHERE DO WE GO - Billie Eilish
13. Midnights - Taylor Swift
14. Future Nostalgia - Dua Lipa
15. The Bends - Radiohead
16. The Wall - Pink Floyd
17. The Dark Side of the Moon - Pink Floyd
18. Discovery - Daft Punk
19. Short n' Sweet - Sabrina Carpenter
20. Lover - Taylor Swift
21. The Black Parade - My Chemical Romance
22. POST HUMAN: NeXGEn - Bring Me the Horizon
23. 1989 (Taylor's version) - Taylor Swift
24. UNDERTALE Soundtrack - Toby Fox
25. Rumours - Fleetwood Mac

### Top Tracks of 2024
1. Espresso - Sabrina Carpenter
2. 360 - Charli xcx
3. Von dutch - Charli xcx
4. ?????? - Charli xcx
5. Not Like Us - Kendrick Lamar
6. BIRDS OF A FEATHER - Billie Eilish
7. Good Luck, Babe!
8. In the End - Linkin Park
9. 365 - Charli xcx
10. Sympathy is a knife - Charli xcx
11. yes, and? - Ariana Grande
12. Numb - Linkin Park
13. Club classics - Charli xcx
14. Apple - Charli xcx
15. Talk talk - Charli xcx
16. Chop Suey! - System of a Down
17. LUNCH - Billie Eilish
18. Everything is romantic - Charli xcx
19. Blinding Lights - The Weeknd
20. No Suprises - Radiohead
21. Creep - Radiohead
22. Mr. Brightside - The Killers
23. Supernova - aespa
24. Feel Good Inc - Gorillaz
25. Magnetic - ILLIT

