---
title: "Changing a Tail, Reverse or Rear Turn Signal Bulb on a 2016 Nissan Altima"
date: 2024-11-10
draft: false
Tags: ["Automotive Maintenance", "Maintenance", "Car Repairs", "DIY"]
---

So I had a taillight bulb go out on me this week, and changing that bulb was simple enough, but also not particularly obvious. Had to look it up
and could only find a overly long winded youtube video on it. In the interest of saving some one else the headache of scrubbing through a 20 min
video to get answer that could have been explained in 2 minute short, I figured I would write it out.

### Tools and Parts list
- Flat head screwdriver
- 8mm deepwell socket or wrench (A standard socket might work, but a baby socket won't. Long bolts.)
- Replacement bulb 
	- The red brake and taillight bulb is a [white 7443 bulb](https://shop.advanceautoparts.com/p/sylvania-7443-long-life-mini-bulb-standard-performance-2-pack-7443llbp2/5080162-P). )
	- The turn signal bulb is an amber [7440A](https://shop.advanceautoparts.com/p/sylvania-7440a-long-life-amber-mini-bulb-standard-performance-2-pack-7440allbp2/99997964-P?searchTerm=rear+turn+signal+bulb)
	- The reverse light is a [921](https://shop.advanceautoparts.com/p/sylvania-921-long-life-mini-bulb-standard-performance-2-pack-921llbp2/5080584-P?searchTerm=back-up+and+reverse+light+bulb)
	
### Instructions:
1.) Open the trunk. (Yes, I'm a smart ass :-D )  
2.) On the rear (driver's perspective) corner of the trunk on the side with the blown bulb, look for a removable plastic rivet. Place under
    the center part of the rivet, a flathead screwdriver and lever the center part up, then pull the rivet out. **If you try to remove the 
    rivet before poping the center part up you will break the rivet.**  
3.) Pull the carpet to the side to reveal where the back of the tail light assembly should be. You will find  2 long bolts secured with 8mm
    nuts.  
4.) Remove the 8mm nuts.  
5.) Applying rearward pressure to the exposed bolts and the outside of the assembly, remove the assembly. It slides off to the rear, not the
    side. This will take a bit for force, but not much. Be careful not to damage the tail light assembly or damage the wiring harness. The 
    wiring harness has roughly 8 inches of play.  
6.) You now have access to the bulb holders for the tail/brake light, turn signal, and reverse light. The bulb holders twist loose and it
    shouldn't take much force. The bulbs themselves are a friction fit into the bulb holders.  
7.) Reverse these steps to reassemble.   
